---
title:  "For Loop?"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---


One of my favorite tools in Python and C was the `for` loop. It was so simple, and straight forward. I was concerned about going into Clojure.

Luckily Clojure has something similar but more powerful. 


Before I get into that I want to describe the problem I was solving. It was Euler problem 4 and it was: Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two -digit numbers.


Went back to my old ways and forced a loop to check the answer. My thought process was to create 2 loops. Start at 100, the smallest 3 digit number, for both numbers. Then increase the first number up to 999, the largest 3 digit number, then increase the second number to 101 and cycle the first number again.


While looping through these numbers, I find the product of those numbers. I wrote a function called palindrome to check if that product was a palindrome.
After cycling through all of the possibilities I found the largest palindrome and found my answer.  

Here is the code:


```clojure
(defn euler-4 [start end]
 (loop [i start
        j start
        max-palindrome 0]
   (if (< i end)
     (if (< j end)
       (let [product (* i j)]
         (if (and (palindrome? product) (> product max-palindrome))
           (recur i (inc j) product)
           (recur i (inc j) max-palindrome)))
       (recur (inc i) i max-palindrome))
     max-palindrome)))


```


This could be cleaner, but for being new to Clojure it’s not bad. That’s me speaking by the way.

Now we get back to the `for` discussion I was mentioning earlier. The the for loop in Python is used for iterating over a sequence. The for function in clojure is a list comprehension, where  it provides a concise way to create lists based on existing lists, arrays, or other iterable objects

Instead of writing out all of the loops in Clojure we can use the list comprehension.

```clojure
(defn euler-4 [start end]
 (->> (for [i (range start end) j (range i end)] [i j])
      (map #(apply * %))
      (filter palindrome?)
      (apply max)))

```

This is much cleaner. We have that list comprehension at the top, we find the product of it, then filter if it’s a palindrome, and finally bring out the max.

This follows a logical framework that isn’t hiding behind a lot of simple unnecessary  code.

Best,

Merl
