---
title:  "FIZZBUZZ"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

I just wanted to demonstrate a little of what I’ve learned. I’m sure you have done the problem fizzbuzz before.

In case you haven’t it is just counting however if the number is divisible by 3 you say “fizz” if the number is divisible by 5 you say “buzz” and if it is divisible by 3 and 5 you say “fizzbuzz “. Apparently, this is a kids game which I’m not sure would be very fun for children in general. I digress

This is a popular coding problem which should result in something like this. `1 2 "fizz" 4 "buzz" "fizz" 7 8 "fizz" "buzz" 11 "fizz" 13 14 "fizzbuzz"`. It sounds like being trapped in a tent with a few mosquitoes.



The fist time I completed this I came up with something like this:


```clojure
(defn divisible-by [n div] (= 0 (mod n div)))




(defn fizzbuzz [n]
 (let [nums (range 1 (inc n))]
   (map #(cond
           (and (divisible-by % 5) (divisible-by % 3)) "fizzbuzz"
           (divisible-by % 5) "buzz"
           (divisible-by % 3) "fizz"
           :else %)
        nums)))


```

As you can see it was a bit too messy. I did not like the 3 and 5 repeating especially if those numbers may change in the future. So I took out  `divisible-by % ` part in fizzbuzz and made separate functions to only use 3 and 5 each once. For fizzbuzz?, I just used fizz? And buzz?


I still wasn’t fully convinced it looked good enough. There was too much going on in fizzbuzz.
So the thought was to take out the conditional and make a separate function. Then since there is only one function being used inside we can use the magical powers of threading.

Take a look:


```clojure
``
(defn divisible-by? [num div] (zero? (mod num div)))
(defn fizz? [num] (divisible-by? num 3))
(defn buzz? [num] (divisible-by? num 5))
(defn fizzbuzz? [num] (and (fizz? num) (buzz? num)))


(defn ->word [num]
 (cond
   (fizzbuzz? num) "fizzbuzz"
   (fizz? num) "fizz"
   (buzz? num) "buzz"
   :else num))


(defn fizzbuzz [num]
 (->> (range 1 (inc num))
      (map ->word)))
```


There might be some more I could do but for right now, I’m liking how `fizzbuzz` looks right now.

Best,

Merl
