---
title:  "Minimax"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

Let’s talk about Minimax.

Before I get into what it is, I want to mention its usefulness in case anyone doesn’t know. Ok, I’m sure you know but it’s still my process.

## Why!

During my first iteration of an Unbeatable Tic Tac Toe, I used many `if ` statements for the logic behind the decision making of the computer.  I did create a few helper functions to *finish the game*, and to *block* the opposition player if that was necessary.  Outside of those, I still wrote hundreds of lines of code filled with if statements which are not ideal.

Luckily Tic Tac Toe doesn’t take much time to run, so I constantly tested it to make sure that it functioned the way I wanted it to.  I had run it through every game iteration I could conceive, until it worked perfectly.  As far as I know there are no holes in the logic, but there could be.


If there are 3 options per slot, and 9 slots that means there are 3^9 possibilities or 19, 683. I am not sure if I covered every single one of these. To be fair, most of those possibilities are not possible because at max you can only have a 5-4 count either way for X or O, where 19,683 contains the possibilities of 6 or more  Xs/Os.  Regardless, it is a tough task.

## Minimax!

Forget those crazy if statements, and possible holes in your logic, let’s solve that by adding a decision making algorithm. The goal of Minimax is to determine the best move for a player by considering all possible moves and their potential outcomes. This is great because now `I` don’t have to, the computer can do it.  
Here is the pseudo code below.

```python
Minimax(s):

if Terminal(s):
return Value(s)

if Player(s) == MAX:
  value = -infinity
  for a in actions(s):
    value = Max(value, Minimax(Result(s, a)))
  return value

if Player(s) == MIN:
  value = infinity
  for a in Actions(s):
    value = Min(value, Minimax(Results(s,a)))
return  value

```

Here are the ideas that follow this code:


## Ideas that follow this code:

Terminal state means game over.
The terminal gets the value of the terminal state, 12 for win, 0 for tie, -12 loss.
(12 is a personal preference because it can be easily divided)

Determine who’s turn it is.
Player takes a game state, and tells if it’s Max or Min’s turn.

In a particular game state, you need to know what actions are available to the player.
Action takes a game state, and gives all possible actions that can be taken.

Result, takes a state and action and tells what the new state of the game will be after taking that action.

Minimax will take gamestate S.

## Simple Explanation

Minimax will run through every action possible for this game state until the game ends. When the game ends it will give a value for the end result, if it wins it gets a +12, lose -12, and Tie a 0.
It will take that value and compare it with the previous highest score of the games it has played.

It wants to get a 12, so it will store the initial move that led to that decision. If for some reason, the game ends in a -12 or 0, it will try to avoid those moves unless 0 is the best outcome.

After it has run through every possible iteration, it will provide the move which leads to the most favorable outcome.

It’s brilliant! Until next time,

Merl
