---
title:  "Add Clear"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

Today is another great day because i get to work on the productivity page!

I have worked with this before but I need to learn more about how dropdowns work, and that is what I will be doing. 

Besides what I mentioned I need to work on fitting the sandbox design to the actual page. 

### Design

From what I have heard, it is probably best to begin on this first. So that any changes made after you fit the design, will not change the design. 

It would be a mistake to complete the functionality and have to go back so it fit the new look. 

Well, I tried to fit the new design and I got stuck. 

### Adding Funtionality 

Now I had to add the `Clear` button. For memberss there is an `All Members` checkbox at the top, this toggles between all members and none. 

However, there needs to be a clear and baby blue button to highlight these wonderful capabilities. Implementing this was not so back.  
The tests were ok themselves. 

Now I had to do this for our labels. But fight I had to make a checkbox similar to `All Members` but as `All Labels`, this way this new 
checkbox behaves the same way. 

Also I can't add a `Clear` if I don't have an `All` checkbox. 

### Problems

What I did above was relatively simple but it did take some time to implement, test, and refactor. 

However I began looking into what needs to be done next. Which is add a new checkbox that has interesting funcitonality. 

This checkbox is `Unlabelled Stories`. This contains completed stories that have no labels. This does not fall under `All Labels` because it has none. 

Now this new checkbox should provide those stories along with the previous capabilites of playing with the other labels. 

This will be a post for tomorrow. 

Until then...

Best, 

Merl
